BentoML Blog Post (#143)
zenml-io/blog.zenml.io: _posts/2022-12-12-bentoml-deployment-with-zenml.md

---
layout: post
author: Safoine El khabich

> title: "Deploying Machine Learning Models from Local to Cloud with ZenML pipelines and BentoML"

Author: maybe "Local to Cloud Deployment with ZenML and BentoML"?

> title: "Deploying Machine Learning Models from Local to Cloud with ZenML pipelines and BentoML"

Reviewer: Ok then either "Switching from Local ..." or just "From Local to Cloud...". Also welcome anyone else's opinion here. Maybe @htahir1 has some better ideas.

description: "Explore how to use ZenML pipelines and BentoML to easily deploy machine learning models from local to cloud environments. We will show how to train a model using ZenML, package it with BentoML, and deploy it to a local machine or cloud provider. By the end of this post, you will have a better understanding of how to streamline the deployment of your machine learning models using ZenML and BentoML."
category: zenml
tags: zenml bentoml
publish_date: December 12th, 2022

> date: 2022-12-12T00:02:00Z

Reviewer: same

thumbnail: /assets/posts/neptune_released/Release_0.23.0.gif
image:

>   path: /assets/posts/neptune_released/Release_0.23.0.jpg

Reviewer: for changing

For more detailed information about stack components, integration and zenml in general you can find it in the docs [here](https://docs.zenml.io/)

## Training Deployment Pipeline

To make this more easily understandable and cleaner we will be splitting the code into two different pipelines. The first one will be the training pipeline, which consists of the following six steps:

1. **Load the Fashion-MNIST dataset**: This step loads the Fashion-MNIST dataset, which is a popular dataset for training image classification models.
2. **Train a classifier**: In this step, we train a classifier on the Fashion-MNIST dataset using a machine learning algorithm of our choice. This could be a simple model like logistic regression or a more complex model like a convolutional neural network (CNN).
3. **Evaluator**: After training the classifier, we use the Evaluator step to evaluate the performance of the model on a held-out test set. This allows us to assess the accuracy, precision, and other metrics of our model and helps us determine whether it is ready for deployment.

> 4. **Deployment_trigger**: The deployment_trigger step is used to specify when and how the model should be deployed. This step allows us to set certain conditions, such as the performance of the model on the test set, that must be met before the model is deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Deployment_trigger**: The `deployment_trigger` step is used to specify when and how the model should be deployed. This step allows us to set certain conditions, such as the performance of the model on the test set, that must be met before the model is deployed.
```

> 5. **Bento_builder**: The bento_builder step takes the trained model and packages it into a format that can be easily deployed and served. This step is important because it allows us to easily share and deploy our trained model to different environments, such as a local machine or the cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. **Bento Builder**: The `bento_builder` step converts the trained model and packages it into a format that can be easily deployed and served. This step is important because it allows us to easily share and deploy our trained model to different environments, such as a local machine or the cloud.
```

6. **Deployer**: The deployer step takes the packaged model from the previous step and deploys it to a local server.

The pipeline can be defined like this:

```python
@pipeline(enable_cache=False, settings={"docker": docker_settings})
def training_fashion_mnist(
    importer,
    trainer,
    evaluator,
    deployment_trigger,
    bento_builder,
    deployer,
):
    """Link all the steps and artifacts together"""
    train_dataloader, test_dataloader = importer()
    model = trainer(train_dataloader)
    accuracy = evaluator(test_dataloader=test_dataloader, model=model)
    decision = deployment_trigger(accuracy=accuracy)
    bento = bento_builder(model=model)
    deployer(deploy_decision=decision, bento=bento)
```

> then every step of these can be defined on its own we let’s take a look at how the trainer step for example is defined:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then each of these steps can be defined on their own. Let’s take a look at how the trainer step is defined, for example:
```

```python
import torch
from torch import nn
from torch.utils.data import DataLoader
from neuralnetwork import NeuralNetwork 
from zenml.steps import step

@step(enable_cache=True)
def trainer(train_dataloader: DataLoader) -> nn.Module:
    """Trains on the train dataloader"""
    model = NeuralNetwork().to(DEVICE)
    loss_fn = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
    optimizer = torch.optim.SGD(model.parameters(), lr=1e-3)
    size = len(train_dataloader.dataset)
    model.train()
    for batch, (X, y) in enumerate(train_dataloader):
        X, y = X.to(DEVICE), y.to(DEVICE)

        # Compute prediction error
        pred = model(X)
        loss = loss_fn(pred, y)

        # Backpropagation
        optimizer.zero_grad()
        loss.backward()
        optimizer.step()

        if batch % 100 == 0:
            loss, current = loss.item(), batch * len(X)
            print(f"loss: {loss:>7f}  [{current:>5d}/{size:>5d}]")
    return model
```

> Once the model is trained, the next step is the bento_builder step, which is a built-in ZenML step that makes it easier to prepare your model for deployment with BentoML. This step builds a Bento, which is an artifact that packages the model, requirements, and custom pre- and post-processing code in one file that can be used to deploy the model anywhere. The bento_builder step can be referenced as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the model is trained, the next step is the `bento_builder` step, which is a built-in ZenML step that makes it easier to prepare your model for deployment with BentoML. This step builds a Bento, which is an artifact that packages the model, requirements, and custom pre- and post-processing code in one file that can be used to deploy the model anywhere. The `bento_builder` step can be referenced as follows:
```

            "zenml_version": "0.21.1",
        },
        exclude=["data"],
        python={
            "packages": ["zenml", "torch", "torchvision"],
        },
    )
)
```

This step takes the trained model and creates a Bento artifact that can be used for deployment. This is an important step because it allows us to easily share and deploy our trained model to different environments.

The last step in our pipeline is the deployment step, which deploys the packaged file called the Bento that contains everything we need to deploy the trained model. The deployment step is also a built-in ZenML step that can be easily referenced to deploy the model to a local machine:

```python
from zenml.integrations.bentoml.steps import (
    BentoMLDeployerParameters,
    bentoml_model_deployer_step,
)

bentoml_model_deployer = bentoml_model_deployer_step(
    params=BentoMLDeployerParameters(
        model_name=MODEL_NAME,
        port=3001,
        production=False,
    )
)
```
After defining all these steps and the pipeline we can run the pipeline which will give us the following:

![Pipeline terminal logs]({{ site.url }}/assets/posts/bentoml-deployment/pipeline-terminal-logs.png)

> In the ZenML dashboard we can see the pipeline dag:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the ZenML dashboard we can see the pipeline DAG:
```

![Pipeline dag]({{ site.url }}/assets/posts/bentoml-deployment/pipeline-dag.png)

> In the Swagger UI, we can see more details about the deployed bento:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Swagger UI, we can see more details about the deployed Bento:
```

![Swagger UI]({{ site.url }}/assets/posts/bentoml-deployment/swagger-ui.png)

## Inference Pipeline:

> To make use of our deployed model the example comes with an inference pipeline which is a set of steps that use some image samples to run prediction on it. You can find the code of this pipeline and more in the Bentoml_Deployment example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make use of our deployed model the example comes with an inference pipeline which is a set of steps that use some image samples to run predictions on. You can find the code of this pipeline and more in the [bentoml_deployment example](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml/tree/main/examples/bentoml_deployment).
```

![Inference pipeline]({{ site.url }}/assets/posts/bentoml-deployment/inference-pipeline.png)

## From Local to Cloud:

> Once a model server has been deployed and tested locally, it can be deployed to a cloud provider using Bentoctl, a command-line interface (CLI) tool for managing BentoML deployments on cloud providers. Bentoctl currently supports AWS, GCP, and Azure, and requires that you have an account with one of these providers as well as the corresponding CLI tools and Docker and Terraform installed on your machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a model server has been deployed and tested locally, it can be deployed to a cloud provider using `bentoctl`, a command-line interface (CLI) tool for managing BentoML deployments on cloud providers. Bentoctl currently supports AWS, GCP, and Azure, and requires that you have an account with one of these providers as well as the corresponding CLI tools and Docker and Terraform installed on your machine.
```

> To use Bentoctl, you will need to first install it using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use bentoctl, you will need to first install it using the following command:
```

```bash
pip install bentoctl
```

> Here is a corrected and improved version of the paragraph:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

:)

In this example, we will deploy the BentoML model that we built using ZenML to AWS Sagemaker. To do this, we first need to install the necessary dependencies:

```bash
zenml integration install aws s3
bentoctl operator install aws-sagemaker
```

Once these dependencies are installed, we can initialize our BentoML deployment by running the following command:

```bash
bentoctl init
```

Next, we will build a Docker image using the BentoML model that we built in the training pipeline. This can be done with the following command:

```bash
bentoctl build -b $BENTO_TAG -f $DEPLOYMENT_CONFIG_FILE
```

Finally, we can deploy our model to AWS Sagemaker by running the apply command:

```bash
bentoctl apply
```

The full code for this example is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml/tree/main/examples/bentoml_deployment).

> ****Conclusion****

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
